# Human_activity_recognition_with_smartphones
predict the human activity movement using sensor signal data

# problem 
Human activity recognition (HAR) focuses on classifying sequences of accelerometer data recorded by specialized harnesses or smart phones into known well-defined movements[1]. These movements are often normal indoor activities such as standing, sitting, jumping, and going up stairs. With the recent progress in wearable technology, pervasive sensing and computing has become feasible. HAR has widely application into various fields, such applications into active and assisted living systems for smart homes, healthcare monitoring applications, monitoring and surveillance systems for indoor and outdoor activities, and tele-immersion applications [2].
# dataset
he experiments have been carried out with a group of 30 volunteers within an age bracket of 19-48 years. Each person performed six activities (WALKING, WALKING_UPSTAIRS, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING, LAYING) wearing a smartphone (Samsung Galaxy S II) on the waist. Using its embedded accelerometer and gyroscope, we captured 3-axial linear acceleration and 3-axial angular velocity at a constant rate of 50Hz. The experiments have been video-recorded to label the data manually. The obtained dataset has been randomly partitioned into two sets, where 70% of the volunteers was selected for generating the training data and 30% the test data. 

The sensor signals (accelerometer and gyroscope) were pre-processed by applying noise filters and then sampled in fixed-width sliding windows of 2.56 sec and 50% overlap (128 readings/window). The sensor acceleration signal, which has gravitational and body motion components, was separated using a Butterworth low-pass filter into body acceleration and gravity. The gravitational force is assumed to have only low frequency components, therefore a filter with 0.3 Hz cutoff frequency was used. From each window, a vector of features was obtained by calculating variables from the time and frequency domain. 
